Testing our apis (#11)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core-unit-2: testing-our-apis/activity-solar-system-api-tests.md

# Activity: Solar System API: Tests

## Goal

Our coding skills improve with repetition.

Our goal is to practice creating a minimal Flask API in a pair or group setting.

Pairing with other programmers will help create stronger understanding of the material, and improved skill at working with others. Software teams thrive on collaboration, so working side-by-side with someone while coding is vital!

In this activity, we will build a Solar System API. This API will store information about different planets.

## Activity Instructions

### Setup

- Meet with your pair/group 👋
- Decide which members will take the driver and navigator roles. This should be a switch compared to the last activity.

The new driver may need to setup their database. Follow these steps:

1. Pull down all new Git commits
1. Activate the virtual environment
1. Install the dependencies
1. Create the database `solar_system_development`

> 1. Create the `planet` table with the columns `id`, `name`, and `description`, and the one additional column

Reviewer: this will be done by the upgrade command
```suggestion
```

1. Run `$ flask db upgrade`
1. Run `$ flask run` to confirm that the API is running as expected

### Driver/Navigator Roles

Driver and navigator roles should switch at least daily.

### Build

Fulfill the following requirements, with similar functionality to the Hello Books API:

> 1. Create an `.env` file.

Reviewer: "a" to match ".env" being read as "dotenv"
```suggestion
1. Create a `.env` file.
```

> 1. Populate it with two environment variables: `SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI` and `SQLALCHEMY_TEST_DATABASE_URI`. Set their values to the appropriate value.

Reviewer: repetitive use of value, but we can be more specific anyway
```suggestion
1. Populate it with two environment variables: `SQLALCHEMY_DATABASE_URI` and `SQLALCHEMY_TEST_DATABASE_URI`. Set their values to the appropriate connection strings.
```

1. Create a test database with the correct, matching name.
1. Refactor the `create_app` method to:
   1. Check for a configuration flag

>    1. Reads the correct database location from `.env`

Reviewer: correct verb form
the os.environ is more accurately described as retrieving environment variables, and since we referred to the connection strings as environment variables in the previous step, using environment variable here is both more accurate and more consistent.
```suggestion
   1. Read the correct database location from the appropriate environment variables
```
